Dependencies: [[Linear Combinations and Span]]
Resources: [Axler Section 2A 2.15 - 2.24](https://linear.axler.net/LADR4e.pdf)
## Introduction
We've discussed vector spaces, but we currently have no way to refer to specific vectors in a space without choosing a particular space. We need a "coordinate system" of sorts for vector spaces. In the note on linear combinations, we saw that when a list of vectors $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n$ [[Linear Combinations and Span#Definition|spans]] a vector space $\mathcal V$, every vector $\vec x\in \mathcal V$ can be assigned a set of coefficients $a_1, \dots, a_n$ that recreates $\vec x$ via a linear combination: $\vec x = a_1 \vec x_1 + \dots + a_n\vec x_n$. These coefficients are therefore promising candidates for our coordinate system. 

Inspired by the case of $\mathbb R^2$, we note that one crucial property is that each point in $\mathbb R^2$ has a *unique* set of coordinates. This raises a question: when are these coefficients of a linear combination unique? More precisely, suppose that $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n\in\mathcal V$ and $\vec y\in\operatorname{span}\{\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n\}$. By the definition of span, there exist $a_1, \dots, a_n \in \mathbb F$ such that $\vec y = a_1 \vec x_1 + \dots + a_n\vec x_n$. But are these the only constants $a_1, \dots, a_n\in\mathbb F$ that can be used to form a linear combination equal to $\vec y$? 

Suppose there are different set of constants $b_1, \dots, b_n\in\mathbb F$ such that $\vec y = b_1\vec x_1 + \dots + b_n\vec x_n$. If we subtract this equation for $\vec y$ from the first, we get$$\vec y - \vec y = \vec 0 = (a_1 - b_1)\vec x_1 + \dots + (a_n - b_n)\vec x_n$$and so we have written $\vec 0$ as a linear combination of $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n$. Moreover, at least one of the coefficients $a_i - b_i$ must be nonzero: if they were all zero, then these would be identical linear combinations! Therefore, whenever there are two different ways to express $\vec y$ as a linear combination of $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n$, we find that there must be a way to express $\vec 0$ as a linear combination of $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n$, *with at least one non-zero coefficient*. 

The contrapositive of this finding gives us a condition for the uniqueness of $a_1, \dots, a_n$: If the only way to express $\vec 0$ as a linear combination of $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n$ is with all-zero coefficients, then any linear combination $\vec y$ of these vectors has unique coefficients. Note that this applies for *all* vectors $\vec y\in\operatorname{span}\{\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n\}$: we have found that when $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n$ are **linearly independent**, they can serve as a coordinate system for $\operatorname{span}\{\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n\}$, where the coordinates are the *unique* coefficients $a_1, \dots, a_n$.  ^7da064

## Definition
A list $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n$ of vectors in $\mathcal V = (V, \mathbb F)$ is **linearly independent** when all linear combinations of these vectors have unique coefficients. This is equivalent to the condition that the only choice of $a_1, \dots, a_n\in\mathbb F$ that makes the linear combination equal to $\vec 0$ (i.e., $a_1\vec x_1 + \dots + a_n\vec x_n = \vec 0$) are the all-zero coefficients (i.e. $a_1 = a_2 = \dots = a_n = 0$). A list of vectors is called **linearly dependent** otherwise (i.e. when there exist $a_1, \dots, a_n \in\mathbb F$, not all zero, such that $a_1 \vec x_1 + \dots + a_n\vec x_n = \vec 0$). These definitions extend naturally to any set $S$ of vectors, with the empty set $S = \{\}$ declared linearly independent. 

## Lemmas
**Lemma 1**: Suppose $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n$ is linearly dependent in $\mathcal V$. Then there is $k\in\{1, 2, \dots, n\}$ such that $\vec x_k \in\operatorname{span}\{\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_{k-1}\}$.
*Proof*: Exercise left to the reader.
**Lemma 2**: The length of a linearly independent list is less than or equal to the length of a spanning list. Given a space $\mathcal V$, if $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n$ are linearly independent, and $\mathcal V = \operatorname{span}\{\vec y_1, \dots, \vec y_m\}$, then $n\leq m$. (Corollary: if $\mathcal V = \operatorname{span}\{\vec y_1, \dots, \vec y_m\}$ and $n > m$, then $\vec x_1, \dots, \vec x_n$ is linearly dependent.)
*Proof*: Exercise left to the reader.